So what the general architecture of networking says is client, there is a client, there is a server, which can be NGINX based. So between client and server, client puts a GET request, server gives a response. In the meanwhile channel, there could happen a man in the middle app, which is a middle man, or a hacker can sniff the information. So we need to make this system secure. And that's why, and that's where comes the need of SSL, which is secured socket layer. So how can we make system secure? Through encryption. There are two ways to encrypt, one is symmetric encryption, which is the same key is used to both encrypt and decrypt the data. So in symmetric encryption, the user has a key through which it encrypts the data, and it sends the key to server, so that the server can decrypt the data. Here the issue is, as the user has encrypted the data, it needs to send it to server, and in between channel of user and server, still the middle man can snip the data, as well as the encryption key, and get the user data. Hence, comes the asymmetric encryption, in which we have two keys, a public key, which can encrypt any data, a private key, which can decrypt things. So now what happens is, there is a user data, server sends public key to client. Server shares public key to client, in which hackers may also sniff in between. Client generates own symmetric key, using the public key of this provided by the server. The client encrypts the symmetric key generated by it, and sends the symmetric key to server. The server decrypts the it using the private key it has, and gets the symmetric key of client. Now client sends the encrypted data with its own symmetric key, and server uses first the private key, then gets the symmetric key, and then uses the symmetric key to open the data. But my question is, can we directly use the public key and private key, why to bring the symmetric key in between? So you answer these questions in the summary. And still there is chances of hacking in this also.

Here, hacking can be done by the way that the hacker may proxy as user in front of server and gets the server's public key, sends a different public key to the client, the client sends the symmetric key and packaged inside the public key generated by the hacker. The hacker may decrypt it with its own private key, then use the server's public key to send the symmetric key of the client to server, so the client is now successfully proxied as user in front of the server and as server in front of the user, and then the client may use the sniff data to unlock it successfully. Here comes SSL, what SSL does is, someone with the authority issues a SSL certificate, so there is an SSL provider, SSL provider has a public key and private key, and server has a public key and private key, the server requests the SSL provider to give it a certificate which has some reference ID to it, this reference ID of the SSL certificate is a combination of server public key and SSL provider's public key, the server sends this key, means its public key and certificate to the client. Now the browser gets the server's public key plus certificate, client browser gets server's public key and secured socket layer provider public key to verify the certificate by requesting the SSL public key from directly the SSL provider which is mentioned in the certificate. Now the client can easily compare and, client or client browser can compare and get the verification done.