the main issues are nowadays there are a lot of notification channels like email, in-app messaging services, WhatsApp, and SMS. Most of the apps try to give the user the control to choose the channel of communication. In fintech companies which deals with payments, then quick notification of every event is important. What we do is we can do notification sending to the user by the synchronous method which is having not to use notification for every event. Back-end slow possibilities are there in the synchronous event messaging and it is not advised to use it for every event. So the best system design of notification system is asynchronous system.Asynchronous system is the best approach because it is a high throughput system which uses things like Kafka or SQS. So basically the system design is similar to what happens in Kafka. There is a producer of event, there is Kafka in between and to Kafka there are connected the consumers like transactional messages, promotional messages which can be set to different architecture like queue architecture or bulk architecture based on their priority. There are topics inside Kafka which decides the logic behind the messages and when to send message, which channel to use, how to apply rate limiting. The best way to avoid the rate limit, so see what happens is maybe our service is fast but the notification service API we are using like maybe the Gmail API, Outlook API, WhatsApp API, SMS API we are using. Maybe it has some rate limiting so the system may get shut down temporarily for like 1 or 2 minutes. To avoid this rate limiting, the best is we use a queue system. So we use queue system to prevent hitting the rate limit every time. And other designs like if the user is online, we prefer in-app notification. We give them the digest logic. Priority queue for OTP logins are used and for other unique request notifications. Smart consumers are made to first send important notification. We may use a PubSub model also.